# cs493_hw5
Advanced APIs (status and MIME types)


Instructions
The only thing we will store in our database this time around are boats. 

Boat
{ 
  "id": 123,           # Automatically generated by Datastore
  "name": "Sea Witch", # Name of the boat, a string which must be unique across all boats
  "type": "Catamaran", # The type of boat, power boat, sailboat, catamaran etc. a string
  "length": 28,        # The length of the boat
  "self": "https://appspot.com/boats/123" #The link to the boat
}
So there isn't much new here. In fact there is a good bit less than before. But we need to be prepared for all of the edge cases!

Required Functionality
Operations on Boats
Create a boat
Request must be JSON.
Response must be JSON.
Delete a boat
Edit a boat
Request must be JSON.
Response must be JSON.
Updating the value of id is not allowed.
Your application must support both PATCH and PUT.
PATCH
Allows updating any subset of attributes while the other attributes remain unchanged.
E.g., update only the name, or update only name and length.
PUT
All attributes are modified (except, of course, id).
This must return status code 303 as discussed later.
View a boat
Your application must support viewing an individual boat either as JSON or HTML depending on the Accept header sent by the client. The options being
application/json or text/html.
The HTML view of the boat doesn't have to be fancy. Just returning the boat as a simple ul with the attributes as li would be sufficient.
Constraint Maintenance
Your application needs to ensure that the name of a boat is unique across all boats.
This constraint must be maintained when a boat is created as well as when an existing boat is updated.
Note: For maintaining this constraint, you do not need to worry about race conditions. In other words, you don't need to account for cases where
two or more requests simultaneously try to create and/or update boats with the same name.
Request Validation
Your application cannot assume that the data in the request is valid, so you must validate the input.
You must
Think about possible invalid input values.
Impose reasonable restrictions to define what your application considers to be valid input.
Document the restrictions and the behavior of your application when dealing with such invalid input.
Implement your code so that it properly handles invalid input, and returns the appropriate status code and message per your API documentation.
Here are some examples of input validation you should think about
What characters should be allowed in the name attribute?
Can the name attribute be arbitrarily long?
If a request has extraneous attributes (e.g., color), what is the behavior of the application?
The above examples of input validation are just a sample and are not meant to be exhaustive.
You should think about additional input validation that should be performed by your application.
The goal is that your application should be robust enough such that invalid input data doesn't cause it to throw an error or return an 
inappropriate status code and/or message.
Content Types
Your API doc must specify the MIME type (or types) in which an endpoint is willing to accept data from requests .
Your API doc must specify the MIME type of all responses sent by the endpoints.
Your implementation must conform to the specification of MIME types in your API doc.
Status Codes
All responses must have the appropriate status codes
You should appropriately use the following 2xx status codes
200
201
204
You should appropriately use the following 3xx status codes
303
When PUT is used to edit a boat, the response must
Return a 303 code, and
The URL of the updated boat must be included in the Location header.
Note: using 303 in this manner is not a standard use of this status code. But we have added this requirement so that you get to set the Location header.
You should appropriately use the following 4xx status codes
400
Use this for requests with invalid data.
E.g., missing attributes, invalid value of attribute.
403
Use this for violations of the uniqueness constraint.
404
405
Use this for PUT or DELETE requests on the root boat URL.
Because you are not supporting edit or delete of the entire list of boats!
406
Use this when the client sends a request with Accept header set to a MIME type that is not supported by the endpoint.
415
Use this when the client sends an unsupported MIME type to the endpoint.
